Good afternoon sir how are you very good very
good and how are you it's been a long time I wanted to meet you I wanted to
ask you something tell me sir that I have
bought a new bike and what is first party second
third party insurance sir see
insurance insurance is not second party there is
some first party and third
party namaskar namaste and Jai
Hind my friends so what is
your name Tushar sir Tushar Tushar ji and I keep getting
comments from many of you
that sir please explain this insurance what is first party
third party insurance so my
dear friends the simple
meaning of first party is that if you have bought a
motorcycle then if your motorcycle gets
stolen or if you have bought a car and its car gets
stolen then the insurance claim for that will be available only if there is
first party insurance
okay now I am telling you from the beginning I am
explaining to all of you from the beginning that when
you buy a new vehicle my dear friends
then it is mentioned as 5 year insurance in it
actually that 5 year insurance is not insurance of both the parties
first thing is there is
no first second third party there is first and third
party there is no second party insurance at all
first thing friends all of you  Let me
tell you that there is first party and third
party, so when you buy a car, at
that time you have
both first party and third party insurance for one year, I am
repeating this, you must
write this down and make a note of it, after that
your first party insurance expires
and you have to get it renewed, you will get
calls from showrooms etc. that sir your
first party insurance and you are not
able to understand, you think that no friend this
misconception remains in your mind that
we have insurance for 5 years, then why are you
troubling us, then
you get a reminder or a call from the agency showroom, it is not that you do
not get it, but you are not able to understand, then
you must understand it and keep getting first party insurance for the
next four years, it is every year, isn't it,
and after that you will have to get both first party and
third party insurance after 5 years,
now what is this first party, what is the
third party, so actually what is it that
now when we travel by car, then when there is any damage to
our vehicle, our
own vehicle, then the
claim on that  The insurance company gives it, it is called
first party insurance claim, first party,
first party, okay, okay sir,
and when we hit someone with our car,
yes, he is called a third person, then the
claim given to him will be given by our company, if we keep
insurance, then our company will give
him the claim, so the insurance claim cover will be of the
third party, did you understand
sir, yes, so the government, our government has made it
mandatory that
third party insurance for up to five years
is mandatory on new vehicles and let me tell you all that
if you have third party insurance, then the
police cannot fine you, even if there is no third party, the
police cannot fine you,
but it is not safe for you, it is definitely not that there is no
fine, so
you should get insurance to avoid the fine
and many people keep asking that sir, if there is
insurance for the car, then is there insurance for the person
and it is only for the person, friend,
you are driving the car, there is insurance for that person
and let me tell you one more new thing, it is
not a new thing, for those who know, it is an old
thing and for those who do not know  That the insurance of your peon or the
rider who is sitting behind is
also included in it, just what do you mean, for example, suppose
your annual insurance
cost is Rs. 50, first is fine, no,
first, first, third, both together, let's say for a
motorcycle, I am telling you only this much that it is Rs.
150, so Rs. 50 and when you give it to your insurance
agent, he will tell you that the
insurance for the one sitting behind is also Rs. 1 lakh, out of Rs.
50, he also has insurance of Rs. 1 lakh, so
my friends, very few people know this information
and there are many things related to insurance
which I will
repeat to you again in small details, like if you buy a
second hand car from somewhere, if
you buy a second hand car from somewhere, then if there is
already insurance on that car, then the policy will be
transferred to it, it gets transferred,
yes the policy will be transferred, so it
was insured on it, when you get it done in your name, then
as soon as it is done in your name, you will get the
RC, what do you have to do with it within 14 days, within 14
days, only within 14 days
you have to inform him, so
your policy is transferred  It happens, you understood,
you understood, sir, okay, and one more important thing is
that the third party insurance gets
transferred automatically, automatically
means you don't have to do anything for it, you do
n't have to do anything for it, just for a second hand
car, but for first party insurance, if your
car gets stolen or there is any
damage to your car, then if there is any damage to your car, if the
car gets stolen, the
insurance claim cover for it will be available only if there is first
party insurance, and when any accident happens to a
third person due to us, then the
claim for that, the insurance cover is
available only when there is a third party, so
it is clear, isn't it, first party,
third party, there is no doubt on this,
and if there is any doubt, then please comment,
I want all the people who are watching it in the entire country that
this video should be made viral,
everyone should know about it, and one more
important thing is that our insurance
company, okay, it will give you insurance cover insurance
claim only when you have an accident on the car, the
driver who is driving the car at the time of the accident, must have a license,
okay, having a license  It is necessary that if you have RC then you will have
insurance, this is clear, your
RC is not there but it is
very important to have a driving license, now nowadays
many of our parents have made the mistake of
giving the car to their children at the age of 14-15, oh
I have seen myself that they
sit in the back seat and make their child
drive the car and are very happy, they
celebrate a lot that their
son is driving the car, God forbid any
accident happens, if any incident happens
then they will cry for the rest of their life because the person who was
driving did not have a license, then there will be no
insurance claim and
if a third party makes an
insurance claim on you, then your entire life's
earnings will be lost, your entire property will be confiscated
brother, it is very terrible,
I will tell you about its slave one day in a separate
video that how much claim is received on whom, if there is a
death, if someone dies in an
accident, then
how much claim is received on that, I will
tell you in detail, so Tushar it is clear, sir, it should be very
much, keep watching this video completely
and  Keep sharing with people and it
's okay sir, thank you very much sir, thank you thank
you so much, Jai
Hind